This lesson covers the following topics:

- Issue identification
- Issue management
- Issue resolution

## Issue Identification

Technical issues can be detected in several different ways including:

- Help desk call, chat, or email
- In-person request
- Monitoring and detection software

The first step in handling a new ticket is to record all relevant information into the ticketing system. Information should include:

|Information|Description|
|---|---|
|User information|If an individual is reporting the issue via email, chat, or in person, you should record his or her name and contact information.|
|Device information|Device information should include:<br><br>- Model number<br>- Network ID number (if a ticket has come from within the organization)<br>- Operating system<br>- Warranty status (if applicable)|
|Problem description|The problem description should be clear and concise. Document it so that other IT team members can understand exactly what problem has occurred.|

## Issue Management

Once the IT department has received notice of an issue, the ticketing system can be used to help manage the progress of the problem resolution. Issues are often organized by category. These categories can include:

- The department a ticket should be assigned to.
- The severity level of the ticket (low, medium, high).
- Escalation level (2nd tier, 3rd tier).

Each ticket will also include a place to record progress notes. These notes are important for problem resolution for the existing ticket. They can also be used as a reference point if a similar problem occurs in the future.

Notes should be clear, concise and include descriptions of:

- Fixes that have been tried.
- Research or follow-up conversations.
- Next steps that need to be completed.
- Exactly how a problem was resolved.

## Issue Resolution

A ticketing system can be used to verify resolution of an issue. Each ticket will include a place to track a problem’s status. All tickets pass through several stages before resolution. These specific statuses can vary from one software to another but generally include:

|Status|Description|
|---|---|
|Open|A ticket has been created and the problem has not yet been addressed.|
|In-progress|A ticket has been assigned and an individual is working on resolving the issue.|
|Solved|The issue has been fixed and is awaiting customer acknowledgment.|
|Closed|The end-user or customer has verified that the problem has been solved.|