This lesson covers the following topics:

- Asset management
- Procurement
- Deployment
- Operations
- Decommissioning

## Asset Management

An _asset_ is a resource that has value to an organization. Assets come in many forms, some of which are:

- Information assets, such as files or databases that contain valuable information.
- Infrastructure assets or physical devices, such as routers, firewalls, and servers.
- Support services for information services.

## Asset Management Benefits

_Asset management_ is the process of tracking and managing an organization's assets. Using an asset management process provides several important benefits. A process:

- Enables IT equipment inventory control. You know exactly what you own, how much it costs, how long you have owned it, and when it will need to be replaced.
- Reduces costs. Because you know what you already have, you avoid accidentally purchasing duplicate assets.
- Ensures that your organization remains in compliance with software and operating system license agreements.
- Ensures that obsolete equipment is accounted for and disposed of properly after it is taken out of service.
- Helps you plan IT budgets. You can estimate when assets will need to be replaced and how much they will cost.

## Procurement

Procurement is the process of purchasing new equipment. The procurement life cycle is a recommended sequence to follow when finding and purchasing new equipment. The six steps in the procurement life cycle are:

1. Determine goods and services required.
2. Obtain a list of suppliers.
3. Negotiate a contract with the supplier.
4. Finalize the purchase order.
5. Receive an invoice and submit payment.
6. Deliver and audit the order.

## Deployment

During the deployment phase, the asset is added to an inventory management database. Important information about the asset is recorded, such as:

- Make and model
- Serial number
- Vendor
- Warranty information
- Location
- Asset tag information (An asset tag is a unique identifier that is assigned to a device by a manufacturer. It consists of a string of letters, numbers, and dashes.)
- Licensing information
- Configuration information

The asset should be tested in a sandbox environment to ensure that it won't adversely affect the production network. After deployment, the asset enters the operations phase of its life cycle, where it is used in the production environment. After testing, the asset is configured and installed in the production environment.

## Operations

Assets will require periodic maintenance, including:

- Applying updates and patches, such as installing operating system updates on a server.
- Performing preventative maintenance, such as implementing an uninterruptible power supply.
- Repairing problems as they occur, such as replacing a malfunctioning network interface.
- Applying upgrades as they become necessary. For example, you may install a bigger hard drive on a server.
- Keeping the inventory management database updated any time one of those events occurs.

## Decommissioning

When an asset is no longer required, it needs to be decommissioned. During the decommissioning process, several important tasks should occur:

- Determine whether the asset needs to be replaced, if its functions can be reassigned to another existing asset, or if it has become unnecessary. For example, a server's hard disk needs to be wiped using disk wiping software to erase any trace of the information it previously stored.
- Identify whether you can redeploy the asset somewhere else in the organization.
- Remove the asset from the production network.
- Record the removal in the asset management database.

After a device has been decommissioned, it needs to be disposed of properly. Several important tasks should be addressed during the disposal phase:

- Ensure that any sensitive or proprietary information is thoroughly and permanently removed from the asset before disposal.
- Determine whether the asset can be sold to the public as surplus, destroyed, disposed of in the common trash, or recycled. The asset should be disposed of in a responsible manner and in compliance with all local laws.